docs: CXSPA-6937 SSR Error Handling (#1563)
SAP/spartacus-docs: _pages/dev/ssr/server-side-rendering-error-handling.md

---
title: SSR Error Handling
feature:
  - name: SSR Error Handling
    spa_version: 2211.29
    cx_version: n/a
---

> SSR Error Handling functionality provides the missing behavior to how Angular engine handles errors during rendering pages on the server. It ensures the Spartacus application reacts on the encountered errors by providing default set of tools to handle them and, at the same time, giving a possibility to customize the experience. This feature is crucial for the SEO of the page and the overall UX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSR Error Handling functionality provides the missing behavior to how Angular engine handles errors during rendering pages on the server (see Angular Github issue [#33642](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/33642)). It ensures the Spartacus application reacts on the encountered errors by providing default set of tools to handle them and, at the same time, giving a possibility to customize the experience. This feature is crucial for the SEO of the page and the overall UX.
```

> **Note:** Angular SSR by default doesn't ignore an error only if occurred in the APP_INITIALIZER or synchronous bootstrap of the root component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Unfortunately, Angular SSR by default _ignores all errors happening during the rendering_ (besides 2 edge cases: errors in `APP_INITIALIZER` hooks or synchronous error during the bootstrap of the root component).
```

> New Spartacus apps created since v2211.29, have the SSR Error Handling enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Spartacus apps created since v2211.29, have the SSR Error Handling enabled by default, which addresses the limitations of OOTB Angular SSR.
```

- Enable `ssrStrictErrorHandlingForHttpAndNgrx` feature toggle to seal the Angular application from the asynchronous errors that occur in NgRx flow and HTTP calls during the rendering process. For more information, see [Strict Error Handling for HTTP And NgRx](#strict-error-handling-in-angular-for-http-and-ngrx).
- Enable `ssrFeatureToggle.avoidCachingErrors` in `SsrOptimizationOptions` to not cache pages for which error occurred during rendering. For more information, see [Cache management and error handling](#cache-management-and-error-handling).
- use `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware in `server.ts` to handle errors in ExpressJS. For more information, see [Using Default ExpressJS Error Handlers](#using-default-expressjs-error-handlers).
- make sure that `provideServer()` config function is provided in the `app.server.module.ts` file. It contains elements required for SSR Error Handling to work properly.

> **Note:** The SSR Error Handling is available starting from Spartacus 2211.29. For new application, the feature is enabled fy default. For migrated application. the feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by using mentioned feature toggles. After expiration of the feature toggle period, the feature will be enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The SSR Error Handling is available starting from Spartacus 2211.29. For new application, the feature is enabled fy default. For migrated application, the feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by using mentioned feature toggles. After expiration of the feature toggle period, part of the steps mentioned above will be enabled by default, however you might still need to perform some steps manually (those not related to feature toggles).
```

> **Note:** The SSR Error Handling is available starting from Spartacus 2211.29. For new application, the feature is enabled fy default. For migrated application. the feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by using mentioned feature toggles. After expiration of the feature toggle period, the feature will be enabled by default.

Reviewer: > ... After expiration of the feature toggle period, the feature will be enabled by default ...

☑️ Let's set a reminder ourselves, to revisit this doc after 6 and 12 months - to keep it up to date, when the toggles defaults change OR when the toggles disappear.

**Note:** Together with SSR Error Handling, Spartacus provides `ssrFeatureToggles` that allow you to enable or disable features specific for `OptimizedSsrEngine`. For more information, see [SSR Feature Toggles](TODO: add link to page when is read).

Without SSR Error Handling, the following issues arise:

- with the default Angular SSR behavior (used under the hood of Spartacus SSR), when the asynchronous error occurs during the rendering (e.g. API call, runtime error in the code), rendering process will not stop and eventually returns possibly malformed HTML to the client with the improper HTTP status code `200`. This can lead to the client-side errors and the page not being rendered correctly.
- when customer enters the URL unknown for the application, Spartacus returns an error page, but with misleading status `200`.

Both scenarios may drastically affect the SEO of the page due to fact the wrong status code in the response to the client might lead to indexing by Google the malformed pages and unknown URLs.

> See below the sequence diagram of rendering the Angular app for an incoming request in SSR, with Spartacus OptimizedSsrEngine included. It shows how an asynchronous error happening during the rendering is ignored and a malformed HTML is returned to a client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below the sequence diagram of rendering the OOTB Angular app (with no SSR Error Handling) for an incoming request in SSR, with Spartacus OptimizedSsrEngine included. It shows how an asynchronous error happening during the rendering is ignored and a malformed HTML is returned to a client:
```

![Rendering Sequence With SSR Error Handling](../../../assets/images/ssr/error_handling_rendering_sequence_with_improvements.png)

To propagate errors from the Angular app to ExpressJS, Spartacus introduce a new contract between the Angular app and ExpressJS.
See below the diagram showing the connections between elements of the contract (arrows represent the flow of data/error):

![SSR Error Handling Contract](../../../assets/images/ssr/error_handling_contract_between_angular_and_expressjs.png)

**Note:** Please note the difference between 2 types of error handlers in 2 different layers:
- Angular `ErrorHandler` class - recieves errors that happened during the Angular app rendering (on the server side). Spartacus provides a custom version of it - the `CxErrorHandler` - which propagates those errors to the next layer - ExpressJS.
- Express error handlers functions - recieve errors propagated from the Angular app rendering. It is responsible for sending an appropriate HTTP status code and HTML content to the client of SSR,

## Propagating errors to the server

> To propagate errors caught during server-side rendering to the ExpressJS server, the `CxErrorHandler` provided together with `Standardized SSR logging` feature has been extended. Now the error handler acts differently based on the platform it is running on thanks to multi error handlers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To propagate errors caught during server-side rendering to the ExpressJS server, the Spartacus `CxErrorHandler` (custom version of Angular `ErrorHandler` class) hands over the error to the multi-provided error handlers, where one of them is the `PropagatingToServerErrorHandler`. Another multi-provided error handler `LoggingErrorHandler` prints the error message to the console. For more, see the detailed description of mutli-error-handlers below:
```

Thanks to this, when such semantic errors are propagated to ExpressJS and handled there by `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware, it can distinguish the errors and return an appropriate status code to the client (e.g. 404 or 500).

**Note:** Make sure your custom Angular HTTP interceptors are provided after `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` (so they run as next in the sequence). If they catch any error, make sure to rethrow the error downstream to next interceptors. Otherwise, Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` will not capture such an error, and therefore it won't be able to propagate it to ExpressJS layer and cause sending and appropriate HTTP error status code to the client of the SSR.  

Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` treats all outbound HTTP as a reason to make SSR fail. 

However, if this assumption is not true for your application, you can customize it by over-providing Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor`. It might be useful in one of the following cases:
- when you don't want some backend HTTP errors to make SSR fail (e.g. when some HTTP errors from backend are considered really not important for the final HTML result of SSR)

> - when you want some backend HTTP success responses to be treated as errors making SSR to fail (e.g. when backend responds with status 200 and a custom payload indicating and error like `{ "ok": false, ... }`

Reviewer: I'm sorry for my typo: `and` vs `an`
```suggestion
- when you want some backend HTTP success responses to be treated as errors making SSR to fail (e.g. when backend responds with status 200 and a custom payload indicating an error like `{ "ok": false, ... }`
```

### Handling NgRx errors

Spartacus treats any NgRx action containing the property `error` as a reason for SSR to fail. To handle them, Spartacus provides elements of NgRx flow that helps to catch the errors and forward them to the `CxErrorHandler`:

> - `CxErrorHandlerEffect` - an effect that catches all dispatched NgRx Actions with the property `error` and forwards such an error to the `CxErrorHandler`.

Reviewer: `CxErrorHandlerEffect` is deliberately a part of our Private API.
What customers can see and customize is `ErrorActionService`. So what about:

```suggestion
- `ErrorActionService` - it filters all dispatched NgRx Actions with the property `error` and forwards such an error to the `CxErrorHandler`.
```

> - `CxErrorHandlerEffect` - an effect that catches all dispatched NgRx Actions with the property `error` and forwards such an error to the `CxErrorHandler`.
> - `ErrorAction` - an interface with a property `error`, used in `CxErrorHandlerEffect` to filter error actions.

Reviewer: `CxErrorHandlerEffect` is deliberately a part of our Private API.
What customers can see and customize is `ErrorActionService`. So what about:

```suggestion
- `ErrorActionService` - it filters all dispatched NgRx Actions with the property `error` and forwards such an error to the `CxErrorHandler`.
- `ErrorAction` - an interface of an NgRx action with a property `error`, used in `ErrorActionService`
```

- *Difficulty in Debugging:* When errors are cached, it becomes harder to identify and debug issues. Developers might not be aware that users are receiving erroneous content, making it challenging to diagnose and fix the underlying problem.

- *Performance Degradation:* While caching is generally used to improve performance, caching pages with errors can have the opposite effect. Users might repeatedly encounter the same error, leading to frustration and potentially increasing the load on support channels.

To avoid caching such pages, Spartacus provides changes to the part of `OptimizedSsrEngine`, the `RenderingCache` class, responsible for caching renders. From now, the caching strategy can be controlled by the new `SsrOptimizationOptions` property, `shouldCacheRenderingResult`:
```ts
shouldCacheRenderingResult?: ({
    options,
    entry,
  }: {
    options: SsrOptimizationOptions;
    entry: Pick<RenderingEntry, 'err' | 'html'>;
  }) => boolean;

> ```

Reviewer: Let's also document the new option in the main list of all the `SsrOptimizationOptions` in the official docs:
https://github.com/SAP/spartacus-docs/blob/develop/_pages/dev/ssr/server-side-rendering-optimization.md

> By default, all html rendering results are cached. By default, also all errors are cached (unless the separate option `avoidCachingErrors` is enabled).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all html rendering results are cached. By default, also all errors are cached (unless the separate option `ssrFeatureToggles.avoidCachingErrors` is enabled).
```

---
title: SSR Error Handling
feature:
  - name: SSR Error Handling
    spa_version: 2211.29
    cx_version: n/a
---

> SSR Error Handling functionality provided the missing behavior to how Angular engine handles errors during rendering pages on the server. It ensures the Spartacus application reacts on the encountered errors by providing default set of tools to handle them and, at the same time, giving a possibility to customize the experience. This feature is crucial for the SEO of the page and the overall UX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSR Error Handling functionality provides the missing behavior to how Angular engine handles errors during rendering pages on the server. It ensures the Spartacus application reacts on the encountered errors by providing default set of tools to handle them and, at the same time, giving a possibility to customize the experience. This feature is crucial for the SEO of the page and the overall UX.
```

**Note:** Angular SSR by default doesn't ignore an error only if occurred in the APP_INITIALIZER or synchronous bootstrap of the root component.

> To benefit from all aspects of SSR error handling, you must do the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Spartacus apps created since v2211.29, have the SSR Error Handling enabled by default.

If your Spartacus app was created before v2211.29, to benefit from all aspects of SSR error handling, you must do the following: 
```

Author: such information is included in the note in line 20:
```json
**Note:** The SSR Error Handling is available starting from Spartacus 2211.29. For new application, the feature is enabled fy default. For migrated application. the feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by using mentioned feature toggles. After expiration of the feature toggle period, the feature will be enabled by default.
```

- Enable `ssrFeatureToggle.avoidCachingErrors` in `SsrOptimizationOptions` to not cache pages for which error occurred during rendering. For more information, see [Cache management and error handling](#cache-management-and-error-handling).
- use `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware in `server.ts` to handle errors in ExpressJS. For more information, see [Using Default ExpressJS Error Handlers](#using-default-expressjs-error-handlers).
- make sure that `provideServer()` config function is provided in the `app.server.module.ts` file. It contains elements required for SSR Error Handling to work properly.

**Note:** The SSR Error Handling is available starting from Spartacus 2211.29. For new application, the feature is enabled fy default. For migrated application. the feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by using mentioned feature toggles. After expiration of the feature toggle period, the feature will be enabled by default.

> **Note:** Together with SSR Error Handling, Spartacus provides `ssrFeatureToggles` that allow you to enable or disable features specific for `OptimizedSsrEngine`. For more information, see [SSR Feature Toggles](TODO: add link to page when is read).

Author: TODO waiting for [CXSPA-8485](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8485)

See below the sequence diagram of rendering the Angular app for an incoming request in SSR, with Spartacus OptimizedSsrEngine included. It shows how an asynchronous error happening during the rendering is ignored and a malformed HTML is returned to a client:
![Rendering Sequence Without SSR Error Handling](../../../assets/images/ssr/error_handling_rendering_sequence_without_improvements.png)

To solve the issues, Spartacus provided CxCommonEngine - a wrapper for CommonEngine which allows to react on asynchronous errors that occurred during SSR. Thanks to this, it is possible to return an error with the appropriate status code instead of the rendered HTML which is potentially malformed.

See below the sequence diagrams showing how the path from the incoming request to the error response looks with the attached CxCommonEngine:

![Rendering Sequence With SSR Error Handling](../../../assets/images/ssr/error_handling_rendering_sequence_with_improvements.png)

To propagate errors from the Angular app to ExpressJS, Spartacus introduce a new contract between the Angular app and ExpressJS.

> See below the diagram showing the connections between elements of the contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below the diagram showing the connections between elements of the contract (arrows represent the flow of data/error):
```

> ![SSR Error Handling Contract](../../../assets/images/ssr/error_handling_contract_between_angular_and_expressjs.png)

Reviewer: The diagram contains an outdated name (before it got renamed in the source code):
old: `defaultServerErrorResponseHandlers`
new: `defaultExpressErrorHandlers`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Please note the difference between 2 types of error handlers in 2 different layers:
- Angular `ErrorHandler` class - recieves errors that happened during the Angular app rendering (on the server side). Spartacus provides a custom version of it - the `CxErrorHandler` - which propagates those errors to the next layer - ExpressJS.
- Express error handlers functions - recieve errors propagated from the Angular app rendering. It is responsible for sending an appropriate HTTP status code and HTML content to the client of SSR,
``

## Propagating errors to the server

To propagate errors caught during server-side rendering to the ExpressJS server, the `CxErrorHandler` provided together with `Standardized SSR logging` feature has been extended. Now the error handler acts differently based on the platform it is running on thanks to multi error handlers:
- `LoggingErrorHandler`, which logs the error using `LoggerService`;
- `PropagatingToServerErrorHandler`, specially for SSR Error Handling purposes, which passes the error to the `CxCommonEngine` thanks to `PROPAGATE_ERROR_TO_SERVER` injection token. For more, see [CxCommonEngine](#cx-common-engine).

To read more about Multi error handlers, see [Multi error handlers](#multi-error-handlers).

> **Note:** If you're providing your own error handler, extend the `CxErrorHandler` from Spartacus to ensure benefits from the SSR Error Handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If you're providing your custom Angular `ErrorHandler`, extend the `CxErrorHandler` from Spartacus to ensure benefits from the SSR Error Handling.
```

   *
   * Note: if more errors are captured during the rendering, only the first one will be used
   *       as the payload of the rejected promise, others won't.
   *
   * @param {CommonEngineRenderOptions} options - The options to render.
   * @returns {Promise<string>} Promise which resolves with the rendered HTML as a string
   *                            OR rejects with the error, if any is propagated from the rendered app.
   */
  override async render(options: CommonEngineRenderOptions): Promise<string> {
    let error: undefined | unknown;

    return super
      .render({
        ...options,
        providers: [
          {
            provide: PROPAGATE_ERROR_TO_SERVER,
            useFactory: () => {
              return (propagatedError: unknown) => {
                // We're interested only the first propagated error
                error ??= propagatedError;
              };
            },
          },
          ...(options.providers ?? []),
        ],
      })
      .then((html: string) => {
        if (error) {
          throw error;
        }
        return html;
      });
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Copy-pasted long pieces of our source code to the official docs may quickly become outdated.
What about placing here just a live link to our implementation? e.g.:
https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/blob/develop/core-libs/setup/ssr/engine/cx-common-engine.ts

Thanks to this extension, it's possible to react on propagated errors and ExpressJS application will receive the error instead of malformed HTML.

## Multi error handlers

> Together with SSR Error Handling, Spartacus brings possibility to provide multiple error handlers that can react on the error caught during server-side rendering. The error handlers are provided in the `CxErrorHandler` via multi-provided token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spartacus brings possibility to provide multiple implementations of the Angular `ErrorHandler` class that can react on the error caught during server-side rendering. They can be provided via the token `MULTI_ERROR_HANDLER`. They will be all executed one by one by the Spartacus `CxErrorHandler` for each captured error. 
```

- `PropagatingToServerErrorHandler` - passes the error to the `CxCommonEngine` thanks to `PROPAGATE_ERROR_TO_SERVER` injection token.

To create a custom multi-provided error handler, you need to implement and interface `MultiErrorHandler` and provide the handler in a module.
The following is an example of how to crate a multi-provided error handler:
```ts
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class MyMultiErrorHandler implements MultiErrorHandler {
  handleError(error: unknown): void {
    /* custom error handling logic */
  }
}
```
```ts
@NgModule({
  providers: [
    {
      provide: MULTI_ERROR_HANDLER,
      useClass: MyMultiErrorHandler,
      multi: true,
    },
  ],
})
export class MyModule {}
```

**Note:** All multi-provided error handlers are executed. The order of execution is same as the order they are provided. 

## Using default ExpressJS error handlers

To handle errors in ExpressJS that were caught during server-side rendering, Spartacus provides a set of default error handlers that can be used in the `server.ts` file:

```ts
/* ... */
export function app(): express.Express {
  const server = express();

>   const distFolder = join(process.cwd(), 'dist/ng-15-to-17-ssr-eh/browser');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const distFolder = join(process.cwd(), 'dist/my-app/browser');
```

    ? 'index.original.html'
    : 'index.html';
  const indexHtmlContent = readFileSync(join(distFolder, indexHtml), 'utf8');

  /* ... */

  server.use(defaultExpressErrorHandlers(indexHtmlContent));

  return server;
}
```

The `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` function takes the `documentContent` as an argument, which is the content of the application's `index.html` file. The function returns an error handler which drives `Fallback to CSR` strategy and sends the `documentContent` with the proper status code based on the error type. By default, the function returns `404` status code for `CmsPageNotFoundOutboundHttpError` and `500` status code for other errors.
```ts
//express-error-handlers.ts
export const defaultExpressErrorHandlers =
  (documentContent: string): ErrorRequestHandler =>
  (err, _req, res, _next) => {
    if (!res.headersSent) {
      res.set('Cache-Control', 'no-store');
      const statusCode =
        err instanceof CmsPageNotFoundOutboundHttpError
          ? HttpResponseStatus.NOT_FOUND //404
          : HttpResponseStatus.INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR; //500
      res.status(statusCode).send(documentContent);
    }
  };

> ```

Reviewer: Instead of copy-pasting code that might get outdated soon, let's put here just a live link:
https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/blob/develop/core-libs/setup/ssr/error-handling/express-error-handlers/express-error-handlers.ts

> This way the browser is informed about the error in the server response, and the application has a chance to try to work correctly on the client side (e.g. HTTP call may succeed in the next try).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benefits of such a approach are:
- we send a semantic HTTP response code, e.g. 404 or 500  - so Search Engines avoid indexing such an error page or re-attempt to visit it sometime later.
- we send HTML content being a "CSR Fallback" - so real users _might_ see a correct content of the page in CSR, if the error that happened in SSR doesn't repeat in CSR
```

> As the final handling takes place in the ExpressJS middleware, error handling can be customized to fit the specific needs of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Customizing ExpressJS error handlers

As the final handling takes place in the ExpressJS middleware, error handling can be customized to fit the specific needs of the application.
```

export const customCmsPageNotFoundErrorHandler: ErrorRequestHandler = async (
  err,
  _req,
  res,
  next
) => {
  const errorPage = /*...*/;
  if (err instanceof CmsPageNotFoundOutboundHttpError) {
    res.status(HttpResponseStatus.NOT_FOUND).send(errorPage);
  } else {
    next(err);
  }
};
```

```ts
//server.ts
import { APP_BASE_HREF } from '@angular/common';
import {
  ngExpressEngine as engine,
} from '@spartacus/setup/ssr';
import { customErrorPageErrorHandlers } from './custom-error-handler';

import express from 'express';
import { existsSync, readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
import { join } from 'path';

export function app(): express.Express {
  const server = express();
  const distFolder = join(process.cwd(), 'dist/storefrontapp');
  const indexHtml = existsSync(join(distFolder, 'index.original.html'))
    ? join(distFolder, 'index.original.html')
    : join(distFolder, 'index.html');
  const indexHtmlContent = readFileSync(indexHtml, 'utf-8');

  /* ... */

  server.use(customErrorPageErrorHandlers); // <-- custom error handler for 404 provided before default error handlers.
  server.use(defaultExpressErrorHandlers(indexHtmlContent));

  return server;
}
```

> ## Strict error handling for HTTP and NgRx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Strict error handling in Angular for HTTP and NgRx
```

>  To seal the Angular application from the asynchronous errors that occur in NgRx flow and HTTP calls during the rendering process, Spartacus provides set of tools to handle them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To seal the Angular application from the asynchronous errors that occur in NgRx flow and HTTP calls to backend during the rendering process, Spartacus provides set of tools to handle them.
```

### Handling HTTP errors

To handle HTTP errors, Spartacus provides `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` that catches the HTTP errors and forward them to the `CxErrorHandler`. The interceptor by default helps to distinguish two types of error by wrapping them with custom error classes before passing them to the `CxErrorHandler`:
- `OutboundHttpError` - represents an outbound HTTP error that occurs when communicating with the backend.
- `CmsPageNotFoundOutboundHttpError` - represents an outbound HTTP error specific to a CMS page not found. Extends the base OutboundHttpError class.

> Thanks to this, `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware can handle the errors properly and return the correct status code to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to this, when such semantic errors are propagated to ExpressJS and handled there by `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware, it can distinguish the errors and return an appropriate status code to the client (e.g. 404 or 500).
```

> **Note:** Make sure your custom interceptors that caches error are provided after `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` (so they run as next in the sequence) or they rethrow the error downstream to next interceptors. Otherwise, `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` will not be noticed about the error.

Reviewer: typo? `caches` vs `catches` ?
```suggestion
**Note:** Make sure your custom Angular HTTP interceptors are provided after `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` (so they run as next in the sequence). If they catch any error, make sure to rethrow the error downstream to next interceptors. Otherwise, Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` will not capture such an error, and therefore it won't be able to propagate it to ExpressJS layer and cause sending and appropriate HTTP error status code to the client of the SSR.  
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor` treats all outbound HTTP as a reason to make SSR fail. 

However, if this assumption is not true for your application, you can customize it by over-providing Spartacus `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor`. It might be useful in one of the following cases:
- when you don't want some backend HTTP errors to make SSR fail (e.g. when some HTTP errors from backend are considered really not important for the final HTML result of SSR)
- when you want some backend HTTP success responses to be treated as errors making SSR to fail (e.g. when backend responds with status 200 and a custom payload indicating and error like `{ "ok": false, ... }`
```

### Handling NgRx errors

> To handle runtime errors in NgRx, Spartacus provides elements of NgRx flow that helps to catch the errors and forward them to the `CxErrorHandler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
Spartacus treats any NgRx action containing the property `error` as a reason for SSR to fail.

To handle runtime errors in NgRx, Spartacus provides elements of NgRx flow that helps to catch the errors and forward them to the `CxErrorHandler`.
```

> - `CxErrorHandlerEffect` - an effect that catches the errors in the NgRx flow and forwards them to the `CxErrorHandler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CxErrorHandlerEffect` - an effect that catches all dispatched NgRx Actions with the property `error` and forwards such an error to the `CxErrorHandler`.
```

- `ErrorAction` - an interface with a property `error`, used in `CxErrorHandlerEffect` to filter error actions.

The following is an example of how to implement the `ErrorAction` interface in your custom failure action: 
```ts
export class MyActionFail implements ErrorAction {
  readonly type = MY_ACTION_FAIL;
  public error: Object;
  constructor(public payload: Object) {
    this.error = payload;
  }
}
```

> If your custom action does extend one of the failure actions provided by Spartacus, you are covered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please make sure that all your custom NgRx Actions of type Fail contain the property `error`.

However, if in your case some exceptional NgRx actions with the property `error` should not make SSR fail, you can customize the behavior by over-providing Spartacus `ErrorActionService`.
```

> ## Custom error handling by RESPONSE token to set the status code manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Don't use the RESPONSE token for setting status code
```

> Before the provided solutions, one of the way to react on handled errors was to manually inject `RESPONSE` token in their code and call `this.response.set(<custom-status>)`. Customers who have so far used this approach should no longer do so as it wont work with the new contract between Angular app and ExpressJS. If there is a need for handling any custom error, it can be done by injecting `ErrorHandler` and calling `this.errorHandler.handleError(<custom-error>)` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the provided solutions, one of the way to react on handled errors was to manually inject `RESPONSE` token in their code and call `this.response.set(<custom-status>)`. Customers who have so far used this approach should no longer do so as it's not guaranteed to work correctly with the new contract between Angular app and ExpressJS. If there is a need for handling any custom error, it can be done by injecting `ErrorHandler` and calling `this.errorHandler.handleError(<custom-error>)` instead.
```

- *Performance Degradation:* While caching is generally used to improve performance, caching pages with errors can have the opposite effect. Users might repeatedly encounter the same error, leading to frustration and potentially increasing the load on support channels.

To avoid caching such pages, Spartacus provides changes to the part of `OptimizedSsrEngine`, the `RenderingCache` class, responsible for caching renders. From now, the caching strategy can be controlled by the new `SsrOptimizationOptions` property, `shouldCacheRenderingResult`:
```ts
shouldCacheRenderingResult?: ({
    options,
    entry,
  }: {
    options: SsrOptimizationOptions;
    entry: Pick<RenderingEntry, 'err' | 'html'>;
  }) => boolean;
```
By default, all html rendering results are cached. By default, also all errors are cached (unless the separate option `avoidCachingErrors` is enabled).
If needed, the caching strategy can be easily customized by providing an own function.

## Error Handling and Logging

All errors caught during server-side rendering are logged using the `LoggerService` provided by Spartacus, which means they are presented in a standardized way:

> - multiline JSON output in development mode, developer-friendly (TODO: add full stack trace when fixed)

Author: TODO waiting for [CXSPA-8360](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8360) and [CXSPA-8385](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8385)

Reviewer: IMHO deliberately omitting a meaningless stack trace improves docs readability

Author: I provided extended logs, but as images instead of copy-pasted code - it shows the idea and what was improved and, IMO, doesn't affect the readability. I can revert the change if needed.

```ts
{
  "message": "OutboundHttpError: Outbound HTTP Error ..."
  "context": {
    "timestamp": "2024-09-19T09:19:52.034Z",
    "request": {
      "url": "/electronics-spa/en/USD/i-do-not-exist",
      "uuid": "3432be12-d36b-4f51-946e-69b16cda98b9",
      "timeReceived": "2024-09-19T09:19:50.128Z"
    }
  }
}
``

> - single line JSON output in production mode, that are seamlessly parsed by monitoring tools. (TODO: add full stack trace when fixed)

Author: TODO waiting for [CXSPA-8360](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8360) and [CXSPA-8385](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8385)

```json
{"message":"OutboundHttpError: Outbound HTTP Error ... ","context":{"timestamp":"2024-09-19T09:28:30.399Z","request":{"url":"/electronics-spa/en/USD/i-do-not-exist","uuid":"76b5c5d4-5a00-4ce5-9b93-c3a6d3399da5","timeReceived":"2024-09-19T09:28:28.828Z"}}}
```

Apart from that, `OptimizedSsrEngine` informs if request is resolved with the server-side rendering error. 
The following is an example of the log message if error occurred during rendering process.
```ts
{
  "message": "Request is resolved with the SSR rendering error (/electronics-spa/en/USD/not-existing-page)",
  "context": {
    "timestamp": "2024-09-13T09:01:27.519Z",
    "request": {
      "url": "/electronics-spa/en/USD/i-do-not-exist",
      "uuid": "1f7a8586-6f94-43e4-bb87-6bd5f4d96956",
      "timeReceived": "2024-09-13T09:01:25.788Z"
    },

>     "error": "CmsPageNotFoundOutboundHttpError: CMS Page Not Found ...", 

Author: let's add full stack trace when [CXSPA-8360](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8360) and [CXSPA-8385](https://jira.tools.sap/browse/CXSPA-8385) are done

  }
}
```

> Such logs are crucial for monitoring and debugging purposes, as they provide information about the error and the request that caused it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such logs are crucial for monitoring and debugging purposes, as they provide information about the error and the related request.
```

- Enable `ssrFeatureToggle.avoidCachingErrors` in `SsrOptimizationOptions` to not cache any pages where an error occurred during rendering. For more information, see [Cache management and error handling](#cache-management-and-error-handling).
- Use the `defaultExpressErrorHandlers` middleware in `server.ts` to handle errors in ExpressJS. For more information, see [Using Default ExpressJS Error Handlers](#using-default-expressjs-error-handlers).
- Ensure that the `provideServer()` config function is provided in the `app.server.module.ts` file. It contains elements that are required for SSR error handling to work properly.

**Note:** SSR error handling is introduced in Spartacus 2211.29. For new applications, the feature is enabled by default. For older applications, the feature is disabled by default, but you can enable it using the feature toggles mentioned just above. After a certain period, the feature toggles will be enabled by default in newer versions of Spartacus, but you still may need to perform some steps manually to fully enable the functionality of SSR error handling.

> **Note:** Together with SSR error handling, Spartacus provides `ssrFeatureToggles` that allow you to enable or disable specific features for the `OptimizedSsrEngine`. For more information, see [SSR Feature Toggles](TODO: add link to page when is ready).

Author: `major:` REMINDER: let's not forget to attach a link to a page about SSR feature toggles when ready.

Reviewer 2: Definitely on my list of things to do -- and I will share the link as soon as it's ready, so you guys can review it 🙂

  /* ... */

  server.use(customErrorPageErrorHandlers); // <-- custom error handler for 404 provided before the default error handlers
  server.use(defaultExpressErrorHandlers(indexHtmlContent));

  return server;
}
```

## Strict Error Handling in Angular for HTTP and NgRx

 To seal the Angular application from asynchronous errors that occur in the NgRx flow, and from HTTP calls to the back end during the rendering process, Spartacus provides a set of tools to handle them, as described in the following sections.

### Handling HTTP Errors

> To handle HTTP errors, Spartacus provides `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor`, which catches HTTP errors and forwards them to the `CxErrorHandler`. By default, the interceptor helps to distinguish two types of errors by wrapping them with custom error classes before passing them to the `CxErrorHandler`. Those errors are the following:

Author: ```suggestion
To handle HTTP errors, Spartacus provides `HttpErrorHandlerInterceptor`, which catches HTTP errors and forwards them to the `CxErrorHandler`. By default, the interceptor helps to distinguish two types of errors by wrapping them with custom error classes before passing them to the `CxErrorHandler`. Those classes are the following:
```

  }
}
```

Ensure that all your custom NgRx Actions of type `Fail` contain the `error` property.

**Note:** If, in your case, some exceptional NgRx actions with the `error` property should not make SSR fail, you can customize the behavior by over-providing the Spartacus `ErrorActionService`.

> ## Not Using the RESPONSE Token for Setting Status Codes

Author: The intention of this header was to warn the user what not to do. With the change made, when I read this header, the first that came to my mind was "ok, here is the paragraph about what happens if I don't use RESPONSE token for status codes" so it has the opposite effect 🤔 

I'm happy to hear your thoughts about this @Platonn @gladius-mtl.

Reviewer 2: I understand what you are saying, but we can't put "Don't Use" in a heading... What if it said "Avoiding Use of the RESPONSE Token..." ?

Reviewer 2: (the reason why we can't make a heading like that is that headings tell what a section is about, but they do not contain directives (actions, steps)...

Author: Understood! Thank you for the clarification. In that case, I vote for `Avoiding Use of the RESPONSE Token...`

Reviewer 2: 👍 🙇 🙂
